First
reviewer's
review	
          >>> Classification <<<
B: I can accept this paper, but I will not champion it (accept, but could reject).

          >>> Summary of the submission <<<

The paper presents Targeted Object Synthesis (TOS), an algorithm for
automatic construction of state transformation procedures for dynamic
software update systems. The algorithm uses number of heap snapshots
taken at corresponding points while running both versions on the same
inputs to match objects in the old and the new versions using key
fields, i.e. object fields that uniquely identify and correlate
objects in both versions.


          >>> Evaluation <<<

The technique discussed in this paper solves an important problem in
dynamic software updating, namely the automatic synthesis of
transformation functions. To solve this problem, TOS runs the old and
new versions on the same tests and employ a series of heuristics to
match objects that have changed between the two versions. The
heuristics are shown to be effective to synthesize several simple
object transformation functions in real programs, but it's unclear
what are the main requirements for their success, and how they would
perform on a broader class of updates.

One obvious question is the impact of the test inputs used. The
quality of the synthesis will obviously be dependent on the quality
and diversity of the inputs. The authors provide little information
regarding the source of inputs they used for evaluation, and the type
of coverage needed for a successful synthesis. They mention that "the
developer must snapshot executions that produce a sufï¬cient number of
objects," but it's not clear how they would know when this is the
case.

SBM: We need at least enough test cases to differentiate between
potential update functions.  e.g. if an object has fields a and b and
in v1 we have {a: 1, b: 2} and in v2 we have {a: 1, b:1}, we cannot
tell whether the update function is new_version.b = 1 or new_version.b
= old_version.a.  We need another example to differentiate between
these two.  v1: {a:2, b3} and v2: {a:2, b:2} would imply new_Version.b
= old_version.a, while v1: {a:2, b:3} and v2: {a: 2, b: 1} would imply
new_version.b = 1.

Second, the authors impose a number of requirements on snapshots. How
restrictive are these in the context of real applications? One of the
requirements is determinism. This is a strong requirement, especially
in the context of multi-threaded applications. How does TOS handle
various sources of non-determinism (e.g. time and date, threads and
scheduling)?

SBM: Determinism is required only with regard to the objects for which TOS
is inferring an update.  For example, Azureus is multi-threaded and
many aspects of connections, such as the order in which pieces of a
file are downloaded, are non-deterministic.  However, for the revision
on which TOS suceeds, the changed class represents the connection as a
whole and the changed field tracks whether the download is currently
paused.  This information is not dependent on thread interleaving
order.  In general, the only determinism requirement for TOS is that
the set of objects of the target class and their high-level state at
an update point should be predictable for a given test case.  We
expect this to be the case for many classes, even in multi-threaded
programs.

What do the authors mean by "running both versions in a
controlled setting"?

SBM: We just mean that the desired behavior (that which is affected by
the update) should be reproducible within the test framework.  For
example, if a bug is being fixed that is dependent on the timing of a
particular network reply packet, then we need to have enough control
over the network to force this timing.

Another requirement is that snapshots in both versions are taken at
the same conceptual update points. Here, it is not clear what authors
mean by the term "conceptual". What if control flow differs across
both versions? Do they implicitly presume control flow equivalence
(or a weaker relation, e.g. bisimulation)?

SBM: The requirement is closer to bisimulation, but only along the
path taken by the test case.  It must be the case that the new and old
version are in comparable states *at every update point* hit during
execution of the test case; states reached between update points need
not match up exactly.  "comparable" means "same high-level state",
conceptually.

Overall, this is a nice paper, but which would benefit from a little
more discussion regarding its scope and applicability.



Second
reviewer's
review	

          >>> Classification <<<
B: I can accept this paper, but I will not champion it (accept, but could reject).

          >>> Summary of the submission <<<

Dynamic software updating systems aim to update software dynamically while the
system is running. This is comparatively easy when the only change is to the
method body. However if the class/method signature changes due to addition,
deletion or modification of a field/parameter, then the DSU system needs to
implement additional logic in order to change the structure of the objects that
are already in the heap or on the stack. This paper is about automatically
generating the code that fixes the running program's execution state to make it
compatible with the new code.

TOS first executes the same set of tests on the old and new program versions
separately, observing the program heap state at key points. Given two
corresponding heap states, TOS matches objects in the two versions using key
fields that uniquely identify objects and correlate old and new-version
objects. TOS then synthesizes the simplest-possible function that transforms an
old-version object to its new-version counterpart




          >>> Evaluation <<<

While this paper is well-written, there are some points that need to be
clarified:
1. How do you correlate the corresponding program points in the old and new
versions when the method code itself may have changed? This appears to be
something that requires manual intervention.

SBM: It helps that the points at which we perform matching are exactly
the update points.  Generally programs require only one or two update
points, placed in their long-running/infinite event loops.  Manually
specifying these points is both feasible and advantageous (cf. [7]).
These points tend to be shallow in the stack and tend not to change
location between releases.  Whatever other ways the program might
change, the beginning of an event-processing loop is clearly
identifiable in both versions of a program.  We will explain this
point more clearly in the revision.

2. On what basis does the programmer specify "update points" and how much
effort is it? How many update points are typically required for a given
transformation?

SBM: As in the previous response, for most programs one (static)
update point is sufficient.  In some cases more are required with the
most we have seen (in either this and other DSU work by the authors)
is 13.  Note that identifying these points is mostly one-time work
that is already required if the program is to support dynamic
updating.  Barring substantial structural changes to the program, the
location of these points does not have to be changed between versions.
They tend to be in methods that do not change between versions.

3. Most of your logic for matching appears to be geared towards Strings as the
basic primitive type. If the "key" field is an integer, and further if the new
version has (say) val-x and the older (buggy) version has val+1, then your
system may not find the key at all? Or worse still, may correlate an object in
the old version to an incorrect object in the new version.

SBM:  It has been our experience that the matching procedure does a good job
of failing when an update is too complicated for our algorithm, mostly
due to our requirement that the matching produced must be 1-to-1.  For
example, if a field f was initialized to x+1 in version 1 and to x in
version 2, then version 1 objects might have values 2, 3, 4, 5 for f
whereas version 2 objects would have values 1, 2, 3, 4.  While three
of these objects match, two of them (f=5 from v1 and f=1 from v2) do
not.  Given any set of objects with this code change, we will have two
objects that cannot be matched.  Note that synthesis-based matching,
which we describe in Section 3.2 would be able to match these objects
correctly if we supported the synthesis of integer updates such as
new_obj.f = old_obj.f - 1 (we do not, though synthesis of linear
functions has been studied and could easily be added to our
framework).

4. Do you actually explore all possible functions? If yes, then what is the
complexity of such an exercise?

SBM:  We do not actually enumerate updates.  Instead, we use information
from the example to quickly filter out the (many) updates that will
obviously not work.  For example, given our restricted update
language, for a field g with type int and a new-version objects with g
= 3, the only possible updates are:

  new_obj.g = 3

and

  new_obj.g = old_obj.some_other_field

But we know that some_other_field must be a field with value 3 in the
old-version object, which in practice eliminates many fields from
consideration.  There are generally more string updates that are
consistent with a given example, since our language of string updates
is more expressive.  However similar tricks apply.  Unfortunately,
such heuristics make the expected complexity difficult to formally
analyze.

5. And how do you determine which one is simpler?

SBM: The algorithm is designed to prefer updates with less branching
and prefer constant updates (new_obj.f = constant) to copy update
(new_obj.f = old_obj.g).  These are heuristic based on the types of
update functions that occur most commonly.

On the whole I feel the algorithms and the arguments have been well thought
out. And the examples make the paper eminently readable.

Third
reviewer's
review	
          >>> Classification <<<
B: I can accept this paper, but I will not champion it (accept, but could reject).

          >>> Summary of the submission <<<

In Dynamic Software Updating (DSU), a program is patched during execution
to avoid downtime. DSU involves not only modifying the code, but also
transforming the objects currently in the heap to reflect the updated code.
This paper presents an automated solution to this state transformation problem
that consists of two step. The first step, matching, involves comparing
snapshots of the heap at corresponding points in the execution of the old
and the new version of the program to identify so-called key fields that
uniquely determine the identity of an object. In the second step, synthesis,
a transformer function is generated that maps objects from the old version
to the corresponding objects in the new version. This function is created
using a predefined set of values and operations, including the old values
of fields, constant updates, string concatenation, etc. The generation of
the transformer function is done in a way that prefers a more general 
transformer function over a more specific one. To make this problem 
tractable, a small number of assumptions is made (e.g. the number of
objects of the type-to-be-mapped must be the same in the two versions, 
the number of snapshots must be the same, and the snapshots must be taken
at "corresponding" update points in both versions provided by the programmer).
The approach has been evaluated by considering 7 updates applied to
4 subject programs, 3 of which are long-running server applications where
downtime would be highly undesirable so that DSU would make sense.


          >>> Evaluation <<<

Updating the objects in the heap is a difficult part of dynamic software
updating. In my opinion, this paper makes a significant step forward
by presenting an automated solution. Overall, the solution seems 
reasonable, and I found the paper mostly easy to read and well-organized.
The main criticisms I have are concerned with the evaluation: the authors
currently consider only 7 patches in 4 programs, and if I understand things
correctly, the tool is only able to infer the appropriate transformer function
in 5 of these 7 cases. 

SURIYA: Information about updates where the default transformers were sufficient
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Application         Updates     # updates        # updates       # updates with
                   timespan     considered       supported       default transformer
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Jetty                1y3m          10               9/10                7/9
JavaEmailServer      1y8m           9               8/9                 7/8
CrossFTP             1y             3               3/3                 3/3
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Suriya:

Version 1.07 of CrossFTP added two fields over 1.06. These fields control a
feature in the new version. The default transformer disables the
feature, whereas the transformer that TOS infers enables them. TOS
compared the old and new versions and figured that the feature was
enabled (field was true) in the new version.

----

While the presentation of the paper is fairly good, I am not thrilled
about the very operational way in which the matching and synthesis
algorithms are presented in pseudo-code, and I would have preferred
a more declarative style of defining things.

Comments:

 - from a presentational point of view, it would be helpful to add
  a schematic diagram in section 2 that visualizes how the analysis of
  snapshots, matching and synthesis are done offline, and that the results
  of this analysis are transformer functions that are then applied to the
  objects in the heap of the running deployed system.

SBM:  say that we will include such a diagram.

 - Regarding the identification of key fields, it wonder if it would be
  possible to analyze the equals() methods in the target class to
  detect key fields because equals() methods often compare precisely
  those fields that determine object identity. Of course, not every
  class defines an equals() method, so you would have to resort to
  a matching step in other cases. I wonder if analyzing equals() methods
  would have revealed key fields in your subject programs.

SBM: None of the classes that were changed in our experiments had
equals() methods defined.

SBM: comments below that have been fixed are prefixed with #
 # page 2, typo "stoping"

 - Figures appear out of order

 # page 5: I think I prefer the terminology "most general" over "simpler"

 # page 6, typo "mail fail"

 # page 6, incomprehensible sentence "More executions are required for
fewer.."

 # page 11, typo "it is can also"

 - page 11, undefined reference "Figure ??"

 - Table 1: why are there entries missing in the table for the second
  patch of jEdit?

 # section 5.2: please discuss the subject programs in the same order
  as in Table 1

 - Azureus: would you be able to manually construct a transformer
  function for Azureus after transforming the code in a more
  profound way than the adding of ghost fields? I'm wondering what
  it would take to make things work for this subject program.

SBM: You could manually construct an update for this example.  Will
run the experiment tonight to see if we get some information even
though TOS fails on this (that is, does its ranking of potential key
fields highlight the field that ends up being involved in the
manually-constructed update).

 - the conclusion of the paper is oddly silent about the fact that
  TOS isn't always successful

SBM:  If the above works out, then that would be a good thing to say here.

